README.md, before:

# Data-Defined Tools Developing and Testing Multi-Service Networked Systems

This repository contains a full demo system and documentation
describing an approach and a set of tools for developing and testing
complex multi-service networked systems. There are two primary themes
of the approach which are embodied in the tools: data-defined and
containerized.

The tools include:

* docker compose: data-defined container services
* [conlink](https://lonocloud.github.io/conlink/): data-defined container networking
* [mdc](https://github.com/lonocloud/conlink/blob/master/mdc): data-defined service group (module) composition
* [resolve-deps](https://github.com/viasat/resolve-deps): data-defined module dependencies
* [dcmon](https://github.com/lonocloud/dcmon): data-defined system status
* [clj-protocol](https://github.com/lonocloud/clj-protocol): data-defined protocols
* [instacheck](https://github.com/kanaka/instacheck): data-defined generative tests
* [dctest](https://viasat.github.io/dctest): data-defined test-suites

In addition all the tools (apart from docker compose) are implemented
primarily in Clojure. However, Clojure knowledge is not required to
make use of these tools.

[Here](https://kanaka.github.io/data-defined-systems/presentations/main)
is a presentation about the approach and tools. The presentation uses
reveal.js (press [space] to progress). Most of the text content is in
the speaker notes (press [s] to bring up the speaker mode with notes.

## Prerequisites

Host system requirements:
- docker and docker-compose
- node and npm

Checkout this repo recursively:

```
git clone --recursive git@github.com:kanaka/data-defined-systems
cd data-defined-systems
```

Install conlink npm dependencies:

```
for f in conlink dcmon dctest; do (cd $f && npm install); done
```

Add `bin/` directory to the PATH either directly or via direnv:

```
export PATH=$(pwd)/bin:$PATH

# OR

eval "$(direnv hook bash)"
direnv allow .
```

## Basic usage

Configure and start up the "dhcp" mode:

```
mdc dhcp
docker compose up --force-recreate --build
```

Monitor the system startup status:

```
dcmon
```

Query the current users (using simple wrapper that adds JSON header
and formats JSON output):

```
CURL localhost:8000/users
```

Create a new user:

```
CURL localhost:8000/users/ -X POST -d '{"name":"Carol","email": "carol@example.com"}'
```

Update an existing user:

```
CURL localhost:8000/users/1 -X PUT -d '{"email": "alice@nowhere.net"}'
```

Shutdown and fully remove all containers and volumes:

```
docker compose down --remove-orphans --volumes -t1
```

## Scale api service

Configure and start up "dhcp" mode and then scale it to 3 "api" replicas:

```
mdc dhcp
docker compose up --scale api=3 --force-recreate --build
```

Commit message:

README: link to Clojure Conj 2024 presentation video

README.md, after:

# Data-Defined Tools Developing and Testing Multi-Service Networked Systems

This repository contains a full demo system and documentation
describing an approach and a set of tools for developing and testing
complex multi-service networked systems. There are two primary themes
of the approach which are embodied in the tools: data-defined and
containerized.

The tools include:

* docker compose: data-defined container services
* [conlink](https://lonocloud.github.io/conlink/): data-defined container networking
* [mdc](https://github.com/lonocloud/conlink/blob/master/mdc): data-defined service group (module) composition
* [resolve-deps](https://github.com/viasat/resolve-deps): data-defined module dependencies
* [dcmon](https://github.com/lonocloud/dcmon): data-defined system status
* [clj-protocol](https://github.com/lonocloud/clj-protocol): data-defined protocols
* [instacheck](https://github.com/kanaka/instacheck): data-defined generative tests
* [dctest](https://viasat.github.io/dctest): data-defined test-suites

In addition all the tools (apart from docker compose) are implemented
primarily in Clojure. However, Clojure knowledge is not required to
make use of these tools.

This project was used for the talk ["Data Driven and Containerized Testing of Multi Service Networked Systems"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rZaouaZq7t8) at Clojure Conj 2024.
The presentation slides are [here](https://kanaka.github.io/data-defined-systems/presentations/main). The presentation uses
reveal.js (press [space] to progress). Most of the text content is in
the speaker notes (press [s] to bring up the speaker mode with notes.

## Prerequisites

Host system requirements:
- docker and docker-compose
- node and npm

Checkout this repo recursively:

```
git clone --recursive git@github.com:kanaka/data-defined-systems
cd data-defined-systems
```

Install conlink npm dependencies:

```
for f in conlink dcmon dctest; do (cd $f && npm install); done
```

Add `bin/` directory to the PATH either directly or via direnv:

```
export PATH=$(pwd)/bin:$PATH

# OR

eval "$(direnv hook bash)"
direnv allow .
```

## Basic usage

Configure and start up the "dhcp" mode:

```
mdc dhcp
docker compose up --force-recreate --build
```

Monitor the system startup status:

```
dcmon
```

Query the current users (using simple wrapper that adds JSON header
and formats JSON output):

```
CURL localhost:8000/users
```

Create a new user:

```
CURL localhost:8000/users/ -X POST -d '{"name":"Carol","email": "carol@example.com"}'
```

Update an existing user:

```
CURL localhost:8000/users/1 -X PUT -d '{"email": "alice@nowhere.net"}'
```

Shutdown and fully remove all containers and volumes:

```
docker compose down --remove-orphans --volumes -t1
```

## Scale api service

Configure and start up "dhcp" mode and then scale it to 3 "api" replicas:

```
mdc dhcp
docker compose up --scale api=3 --force-recreate --build
```
